In this lecture, I'm going to show you how to download and install Maven.
So before I begin, I'm going to open up command prompt and I'm going to type the command m the end
dash version and click enter and you can see that that is not a recognized command.
So I'm going to close this for now and then open up Chrome and I'm going to type here maven download.
And the first link should be to Maven at Apache dot org.
If I click that link, you should be presented with the following page.
So this is the section where the files are available and I'm going to be using the binary zip archive
section.
So at the time of this record in MAVEN, free .8.1 is the latest version.
So I am going to click this link to begin the download once has downloaded.
If I click this folder, it should open up in Windows Explorer.
So I'm going to place this in my resources folder.
So I'm going to simply drag it over.
Mike.
So.
And then I'm going to close both of these.
The next thing I need to do is go to my windows environment variables.
So if I type EMV, you'll see I'm giving an option to the environment variables and it should present
the following panel.
I'm going to click the environment variable variable button and you should see something similar to
what's on my screen.
So I need to add a new variable for the top section and I need to add a new path in my path variable
as well.
So I'm going to start with the top section and click the new button and variable name.
I'm going to give its maven underscore home.
And then I'm going to click the variable value textbox and then click browse directory.
So I need to find my resources folder.
And I am going to highlight the Apache Maven folder like so and then click.
Okay.
And then I'm going to click okay again.
So in my system variable section, I am going to highlight the path and I'm going to click edit.
And you should see something similar to what's on my screen.
So here I'm going to click the new button and I'm going to click Browse.
And I need to find my resources folder again.
But this time I need to expand the Apache Maven folder to highlight the bin folder.
And then I'm going to click okay.
And then okay again.
So that's how two variables set.
So if I click okay and close this, if I open up command prompt again.
And that same command envy.
And that version.
You can see that it now returns Apache Maven, which confirms installation was a success.
I hope this was useful and thank you for watching.